.. _thirdpartylicenses:

|FABRIC_PRODUCT_NAME| |FABRIC_VERSION| Third Party Licenses
====================================================================

Alembic - Open Interchange Format for Computer Graphics
----------------------------------------------------------

TM & © 2009-2013 Lucasfilm Entertainment Company Ltd. or Lucasfilm Ltd.
All rights reserved.

Industrial Light & Magic, ILM and the Bulb and Gear design logo are all
registered trademarks or service marks of Lucasfilm Ltd.

© 2009-2013 Sony Pictures Imageworks Inc.  All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:
* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer
in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
distribution.
* Neither the name of Industrial Light & Magic nor the names of
its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ALEMBIC ATTACHMENT A — 
REQUIRED NOTICES FOR DISTRIBUTION

The Alembic Software is distributed along with certain third party 
components licensed under various open source software licenses ("Open 
Source Components"). In addition to the warranty disclaimers contained 
in the open source licenses found below, Industrial Light & Magic, a 
division of Lucasfilm Entertainment Company Ltd. ("ILM") makes the 
following disclaimers regarding the Open Source Components on behalf of 
itself, the copyright holders, contributors, and licensors of such Open 
Source Components: 

TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED UNDER APPLICABLE LAW, THE OPEN SOURCE 
COMPONENTS ARE PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS, CONTRIBUTORS, 
LICENSORS, AND ILM "AS IS" AND ANY REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES OF ANY 
KIND, WHETHER ORAL OR WRITTEN, WHETHER EXPRESS, IMPLIED, OR ARISING BY 
STATUTE, CUSTOM, COURSE OF DEALING, OR TRADE USAGE, INCLUDING WITHOUT 
LIMITATION THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF TITLE, MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR 
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND NON-INFRINGEMENT, ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT 
WILL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER, CONTRIBUTORS, LICENSORS, OR ILM AND/OR ITS 
AFFILIATES BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, 
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, 
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR 
PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION), HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING 
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THE OPEN 
SOURCE COMPONENTS, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. 

Boost C++ Libraries 
------------------------------------------------------------------------ 

Boost Software License – Version 1.0 August 17th, 2003 Permission is 
hereby granted, free of charge, to any person or organization obtaining 
a copy of the software and accompanying documentation covered by this 
license (the "Software") to use, reproduce, display, distribute, 
execute, and transmit the Software, and to prepare derivative works of 
the Software, and to permit third-parties to whom the Software is 
furnished to do so, all subject to the following: 

The copyright notices in the Software and this entire statement, 
including the above license grant, this restriction and the following 
disclaimer, must be included in all copies of the Software, in whole or 
in part, and all derivative works of the Software, unless such copies or 
derivative works are solely in the form of machine-executable object 
code generated by a source language processor. 

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS 
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF 
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND 
NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR ANYONE 
DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, 
WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN 
CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE 
SOFTWARE. 

MurmurHash3 
------------------------------------------------------------------------  

The MIT License (MIT) 

Copyright (c) <year> <copyright holders> 

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a 
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the 
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including 
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, 
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to 
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to 
the following conditions: 

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included 
in all copies or substantial portions of the Software. 

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS 
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF 
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. 
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY 
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, 
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE 
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE. 

Bullet Physics Library
------------------------------
Copyright (c) 2003-2010 Erwin Coumans  http://continuousphysics.com/Bullet/

This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied warranty.
In no event will the authors be held liable for any damages arising from the use of this software.
Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose, 
including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it freely, 
subject to the following restrictions:

1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software in a product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be appreciated but is not required.
2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be misrepresented as being the original software.
3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.

Free for commercial use, please report projects in the forum at http://www.bulletphysics.org

In case you want to display a Bullet logo in your software: you can download the Bullet logo in various vector formats and high resolution at the download section in http://bullet.googlecode.com

The CImg Library - C++ Template Image Processing Toolkit
------------------------------------------------------------

CeCILL-C FREE SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT


    Notice

This Agreement is a Free Software license agreement that is the result
of discussions between its authors in order to ensure compliance with
the two main principles guiding its drafting:

    * firstly, compliance with the principles governing the distribution
      of Free Software: access to source code, broad rights granted to
      users,
    * secondly, the election of a governing law, French law, with which
      it is conformant, both as regards the law of torts and
      intellectual property law, and the protection that it offers to
      both authors and holders of the economic rights over software.

The authors of the CeCILL-C (for Ce[a] C[nrs] I[nria] L[ogiciel] L[ibre])
license are:

Commissariat à l'Energie Atomique - CEA, a public scientific, technical
and industrial research establishment, having its principal place of
business at 25 rue Leblanc, immeuble Le Ponant D, 75015 Paris, France.

Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique - CNRS, a public scientific
and technological establishment, having its principal place of business
at 3 rue Michel-Ange, 75794 Paris cedex 16, France.

Institut National de Recherche en Informatique et en Automatique -
INRIA, a public scientific and technological establishment, having its
principal place of business at Domaine de Voluceau, Rocquencourt, BP
105, 78153 Le Chesnay cedex, France.


    Preamble

The purpose of this Free Software license agreement is to grant users
the right to modify and re-use the software governed by this license.

The exercising of this right is conditional upon the obligation to make
available to the community the modifications made to the source code of
the software so as to contribute to its evolution.

In consideration of access to the source code and the rights to copy,
modify and redistribute granted by the license, users are provided only
with a limited warranty and the software's author, the holder of the
economic rights, and the successive licensors only have limited liability.

In this respect, the risks associated with loading, using, modifying
and/or developing or reproducing the software by the user are brought to
the user's attention, given its Free Software status, which may make it
complicated to use, with the result that its use is reserved for
developers and experienced professionals having in-depth computer
knowledge. Users are therefore encouraged to load and test the
suitability of the software as regards their requirements in conditions
enabling the security of their systems and/or data to be ensured and,
more generally, to use and operate it in the same conditions of
security. This Agreement may be freely reproduced and published,
provided it is not altered, and that no provisions are either added or
removed herefrom.

This Agreement may apply to any or all software for which the holder of
the economic rights decides to submit the use thereof to its provisions.


    Article 1 - DEFINITIONS

For the purpose of this Agreement, when the following expressions
commence with a capital letter, they shall have the following meaning:

Agreement: means this license agreement, and its possible subsequent
versions and annexes.

Software: means the software in its Object Code and/or Source Code form
and, where applicable, its documentation, "as is" when the Licensee
accepts the Agreement.

Initial Software: means the Software in its Source Code and possibly its
Object Code form and, where applicable, its documentation, "as is" when
it is first distributed under the terms and conditions of the Agreement.

Modified Software: means the Software modified by at least one
Integrated Contribution.

Source Code: means all the Software's instructions and program lines to
which access is required so as to modify the Software.

Object Code: means the binary files originating from the compilation of
the Source Code.

Holder: means the holder(s) of the economic rights over the Initial
Software.

Licensee: means the Software user(s) having accepted the Agreement.

Contributor: means a Licensee having made at least one Integrated
Contribution.

Licensor: means the Holder, or any other individual or legal entity, who
distributes the Software under the Agreement.

Integrated Contribution: means any or all modifications, corrections,
translations, adaptations and/or new functions integrated into the
Source Code by any or all Contributors.

Related Module: means a set of sources files including their
documentation that, without modification to the Source Code, enables
supplementary functions or services in addition to those offered by the
Software.

Derivative Software: means any combination of the Software, modified or
not, and of a Related Module.

Parties: mean both the Licensee and the Licensor.

These expressions may be used both in singular and plural form.


    Article 2 - PURPOSE

The purpose of the Agreement is the grant by the Licensor to the
Licensee of a non-exclusive, transferable and worldwide license for the
Software as set forth in Article 5 hereinafter for the whole term of the
protection granted by the rights over said Software. 


    Article 3 - ACCEPTANCE

3.1 The Licensee shall be deemed as having accepted the terms and
conditions of this Agreement upon the occurrence of the first of the
following events:

    * (i) loading the Software by any or all means, notably, by
      downloading from a remote server, or by loading from a physical
      medium;
    * (ii) the first time the Licensee exercises any of the rights
      granted hereunder.

3.2 One copy of the Agreement, containing a notice relating to the
characteristics of the Software, to the limited warranty, and to the
fact that its use is restricted to experienced users has been provided
to the Licensee prior to its acceptance as set forth in Article 3.1
hereinabove, and the Licensee hereby acknowledges that it has read and
understood it.


    Article 4 - EFFECTIVE DATE AND TERM


      4.1 EFFECTIVE DATE

The Agreement shall become effective on the date when it is accepted by
the Licensee as set forth in Article 3.1.


      4.2 TERM

The Agreement shall remain in force for the entire legal term of
protection of the economic rights over the Software.


    Article 5 - SCOPE OF RIGHTS GRANTED

The Licensor hereby grants to the Licensee, who accepts, the following
rights over the Software for any or all use, and for the term of the
Agreement, on the basis of the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter.

Besides, if the Licensor owns or comes to own one or more patents
protecting all or part of the functions of the Software or of its
components, the Licensor undertakes not to enforce the rights granted by
these patents against successive Licensees using, exploiting or
modifying the Software. If these patents are transferred, the Licensor
undertakes to have the transferees subscribe to the obligations set
forth in this paragraph.


      5.1 RIGHT OF USE

The Licensee is authorized to use the Software, without any limitation
as to its fields of application, with it being hereinafter specified
that this comprises:

   1. permanent or temporary reproduction of all or part of the Software
      by any or all means and in any or all form.

   2. loading, displaying, running, or storing the Software on any or
      all medium.

   3. entitlement to observe, study or test its operation so as to
      determine the ideas and principles behind any or all constituent
      elements of said Software. This shall apply when the Licensee
      carries out any or all loading, displaying, running, transmission
      or storage operation as regards the Software, that it is entitled
      to carry out hereunder.


      5.2 RIGHT OF MODIFICATION

The right of modification includes the right to translate, adapt,
arrange, or make any or all modifications to the Software, and the right
to reproduce the resulting software. It includes, in particular, the
right to create a Derivative Software.

The Licensee is authorized to make any or all modification to the
Software provided that it includes an explicit notice that it is the
author of said modification and indicates the date of the creation thereof.


      5.3 RIGHT OF DISTRIBUTION

In particular, the right of distribution includes the right to publish,
transmit and communicate the Software to the general public on any or
all medium, and by any or all means, and the right to market, either in
consideration of a fee, or free of charge, one or more copies of the
Software by any means.

The Licensee is further authorized to distribute copies of the modified
or unmodified Software to third parties according to the terms and
conditions set forth hereinafter.


        5.3.1 DISTRIBUTION OF SOFTWARE WITHOUT MODIFICATION

The Licensee is authorized to distribute true copies of the Software in
Source Code or Object Code form, provided that said distribution
complies with all the provisions of the Agreement and is accompanied by:

   1. a copy of the Agreement,

   2. a notice relating to the limitation of both the Licensor's
      warranty and liability as set forth in Articles 8 and 9,

and that, in the event that only the Object Code of the Software is
redistributed, the Licensee allows effective access to the full Source
Code of the Software at a minimum during the entire period of its
distribution of the Software, it being understood that the additional
cost of acquiring the Source Code shall not exceed the cost of
transferring the data.


        5.3.2 DISTRIBUTION OF MODIFIED SOFTWARE

When the Licensee makes an Integrated Contribution to the Software, the
terms and conditions for the distribution of the resulting Modified
Software become subject to all the provisions of this Agreement.

The Licensee is authorized to distribute the Modified Software, in
source code or object code form, provided that said distribution
complies with all the provisions of the Agreement and is accompanied by:

   1. a copy of the Agreement,

   2. a notice relating to the limitation of both the Licensor's
      warranty and liability as set forth in Articles 8 and 9,

and that, in the event that only the object code of the Modified
Software is redistributed, the Licensee allows effective access to the
full source code of the Modified Software at a minimum during the entire
period of its distribution of the Modified Software, it being understood
that the additional cost of acquiring the source code shall not exceed
the cost of transferring the data.


        5.3.3 DISTRIBUTION OF DERIVATIVE SOFTWARE

When the Licensee creates Derivative Software, this Derivative Software
may be distributed under a license agreement other than this Agreement,
subject to compliance with the requirement to include a notice
concerning the rights over the Software as defined in Article 6.4.
In the event the creation of the Derivative Software required modification 
of the Source Code, the Licensee undertakes that:

   1. the resulting Modified Software will be governed by this Agreement,
   2. the Integrated Contributions in the resulting Modified Software
      will be clearly identified and documented,
   3. the Licensee will allow effective access to the source code of the
      Modified Software, at a minimum during the entire period of
      distribution of the Derivative Software, such that such
      modifications may be carried over in a subsequent version of the
      Software; it being understood that the additional cost of
      purchasing the source code of the Modified Software shall not
      exceed the cost of transferring the data.


        5.3.4 COMPATIBILITY WITH THE CeCILL LICENSE

When a Modified Software contains an Integrated Contribution subject to
the CeCILL license agreement, or when a Derivative Software contains a
Related Module subject to the CeCILL license agreement, the provisions
set forth in the third item of Article 6.4 are optional.


    Article 6 - INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY


      6.1 OVER THE INITIAL SOFTWARE

The Holder owns the economic rights over the Initial Software. Any or
all use of the Initial Software is subject to compliance with the terms
and conditions under which the Holder has elected to distribute its work
and no one shall be entitled to modify the terms and conditions for the
distribution of said Initial Software.

The Holder undertakes that the Initial Software will remain ruled at
least by this Agreement, for the duration set forth in Article 4.2.


      6.2 OVER THE INTEGRATED CONTRIBUTIONS

The Licensee who develops an Integrated Contribution is the owner of the
intellectual property rights over this Contribution as defined by
applicable law.


      6.3 OVER THE RELATED MODULES

The Licensee who develops a Related Module is the owner of the
intellectual property rights over this Related Module as defined by
applicable law and is free to choose the type of agreement that shall
govern its distribution under the conditions defined in Article 5.3.3.


      6.4 NOTICE OF RIGHTS

The Licensee expressly undertakes:

   1. not to remove, or modify, in any manner, the intellectual property
      notices attached to the Software;

   2. to reproduce said notices, in an identical manner, in the copies
      of the Software modified or not;

   3. to ensure that use of the Software, its intellectual property
      notices and the fact that it is governed by the Agreement is
      indicated in a text that is easily accessible, specifically from
      the interface of any Derivative Software.

The Licensee undertakes not to directly or indirectly infringe the
intellectual property rights of the Holder and/or Contributors on the
Software and to take, where applicable, vis-à-vis its staff, any and all
measures required to ensure respect of said intellectual property rights
of the Holder and/or Contributors.


    Article 7 - RELATED SERVICES

7.1 Under no circumstances shall the Agreement oblige the Licensor to
provide technical assistance or maintenance services for the Software.

However, the Licensor is entitled to offer this type of services. The
terms and conditions of such technical assistance, and/or such
maintenance, shall be set forth in a separate instrument. Only the
Licensor offering said maintenance and/or technical assistance services
shall incur liability therefor.

7.2 Similarly, any Licensor is entitled to offer to its licensees, under
its sole responsibility, a warranty, that shall only be binding upon
itself, for the redistribution of the Software and/or the Modified
Software, under terms and conditions that it is free to decide. Said
warranty, and the financial terms and conditions of its application,
shall be subject of a separate instrument executed between the Licensor
and the Licensee.


    Article 8 - LIABILITY

8.1 Subject to the provisions of Article 8.2, the Licensee shall be
entitled to claim compensation for any direct loss it may have suffered
from the Software as a result of a fault on the part of the relevant
Licensor, subject to providing evidence thereof.

8.2 The Licensor's liability is limited to the commitments made under
this Agreement and shall not be incurred as a result of in particular:
(i) loss due the Licensee's total or partial failure to fulfill its
obligations, (ii) direct or consequential loss that is suffered by the
Licensee due to the use or performance of the Software, and (iii) more
generally, any consequential loss. In particular the Parties expressly
agree that any or all pecuniary or business loss (i.e. loss of data,
loss of profits, operating loss, loss of customers or orders,
opportunity cost, any disturbance to business activities) or any or all
legal proceedings instituted against the Licensee by a third party,
shall constitute consequential loss and shall not provide entitlement to
any or all compensation from the Licensor.


    Article 9 - WARRANTY

9.1 The Licensee acknowledges that the scientific and technical
state-of-the-art when the Software was distributed did not enable all
possible uses to be tested and verified, nor for the presence of
possible defects to be detected. In this respect, the Licensee's
attention has been drawn to the risks associated with loading, using,
modifying and/or developing and reproducing the Software which are
reserved for experienced users.

The Licensee shall be responsible for verifying, by any or all means,
the suitability of the product for its requirements, its good working
order, and for ensuring that it shall not cause damage to either persons
or properties.

9.2 The Licensor hereby represents, in good faith, that it is entitled
to grant all the rights over the Software (including in particular the
rights set forth in Article 5).

9.3 The Licensee acknowledges that the Software is supplied "as is" by
the Licensor without any other express or tacit warranty, other than
that provided for in Article 9.2 and, in particular, without any warranty
as to its commercial value, its secured, safe, innovative or relevant
nature.

Specifically, the Licensor does not warrant that the Software is free
from any error, that it will operate without interruption, that it will
be compatible with the Licensee's own equipment and software
configuration, nor that it will meet the Licensee's requirements.

9.4 The Licensor does not either expressly or tacitly warrant that the
Software does not infringe any third party intellectual property right
relating to a patent, software or any other property right. Therefore,
the Licensor disclaims any and all liability towards the Licensee
arising out of any or all proceedings for infringement that may be
instituted in respect of the use, modification and redistribution of the
Software. Nevertheless, should such proceedings be instituted against
the Licensee, the Licensor shall provide it with technical and legal
assistance for its defense. Such technical and legal assistance shall be
decided on a case-by-case basis between the relevant Licensor and the
Licensee pursuant to a memorandum of understanding. The Licensor
disclaims any and all liability as regards the Licensee's use of the
name of the Software. No warranty is given as regards the existence of
prior rights over the name of the Software or as regards the existence
of a trademark.


    Article 10 - TERMINATION

10.1 In the event of a breach by the Licensee of its obligations
hereunder, the Licensor may automatically terminate this Agreement
thirty (30) days after notice has been sent to the Licensee and has
remained ineffective.

10.2 A Licensee whose Agreement is terminated shall no longer be
authorized to use, modify or distribute the Software. However, any
licenses that it may have granted prior to termination of the Agreement
shall remain valid subject to their having been granted in compliance
with the terms and conditions hereof.


    Article 11 - MISCELLANEOUS


      11.1 EXCUSABLE EVENTS

Neither Party shall be liable for any or all delay, or failure to
perform the Agreement, that may be attributable to an event of force
majeure, an act of God or an outside cause, such as defective
functioning or interruptions of the electricity or telecommunications
networks, network paralysis following a virus attack, intervention by
government authorities, natural disasters, water damage, earthquakes,
fire, explosions, strikes and labor unrest, war, etc.

11.2 Any failure by either Party, on one or more occasions, to invoke
one or more of the provisions hereof, shall under no circumstances be
interpreted as being a waiver by the interested Party of its right to
invoke said provision(s) subsequently.

11.3 The Agreement cancels and replaces any or all previous agreements,
whether written or oral, between the Parties and having the same
purpose, and constitutes the entirety of the agreement between said
Parties concerning said purpose. No supplement or modification to the
terms and conditions hereof shall be effective as between the Parties
unless it is made in writing and signed by their duly authorized
representatives.

11.4 In the event that one or more of the provisions hereof were to
conflict with a current or future applicable act or legislative text,
said act or legislative text shall prevail, and the Parties shall make
the necessary amendments so as to comply with said act or legislative
text. All other provisions shall remain effective. Similarly, invalidity
of a provision of the Agreement, for any reason whatsoever, shall not
cause the Agreement as a whole to be invalid.


      11.5 LANGUAGE

The Agreement is drafted in both French and English and both versions
are deemed authentic.


    Article 12 - NEW VERSIONS OF THE AGREEMENT

12.1 Any person is authorized to duplicate and distribute copies of this
Agreement.

12.2 So as to ensure coherence, the wording of this Agreement is
protected and may only be modified by the authors of the License, who
reserve the right to periodically publish updates or new versions of the
Agreement, each with a separate number. These subsequent versions may
address new issues encountered by Free Software.

12.3 Any Software distributed under a given version of the Agreement may
only be subsequently distributed under the same version of the Agreement
or a subsequent version.


    Article 13 - GOVERNING LAW AND JURISDICTION

13.1 The Agreement is governed by French law. The Parties agree to
endeavor to seek an amicable solution to any disagreements or disputes
that may arise during the performance of the Agreement.

13.2 Failing an amicable solution within two (2) months as from their
occurrence, and unless emergency proceedings are necessary, the
disagreements or disputes shall be referred to the Paris Courts having
jurisdiction, by the more diligent Party.


Version 1.0 dated 2006-09-05.


OpenEXR
--------------
Modified BSD License:

Copyright (c) 2002-2011, Industrial Light & Magic, a division of Lucasfilm Entertainment Company Ltd. All rights reserved. 

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:


Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
Neither the name of Industrial Light & Magic nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

LibPNG
-------------

This copy of the libpng notices is provided for your convenience.  In case of
any discrepancy between this copy and the notices in the file png.h that is
included in the libpng distribution, the latter shall prevail.

COPYRIGHT NOTICE, DISCLAIMER, and LICENSE:

If you modify libpng you may insert additional notices immediately following
this sentence.

This code is released under the libpng license.

libpng versions 1.2.6, August 15, 2004, through 1.5.12, July 11, 2012, are
Copyright (c) 2004, 2006-2012 Glenn Randers-Pehrson, and are
distributed according to the same disclaimer and license as libpng-1.2.5
with the following individual added to the list of Contributing Authors

   Cosmin Truta

libpng versions 1.0.7, July 1, 2000, through 1.2.5 - October 3, 2002, are
Copyright (c) 2000-2002 Glenn Randers-Pehrson, and are
distributed according to the same disclaimer and license as libpng-1.0.6
with the following individuals added to the list of Contributing Authors

   Simon-Pierre Cadieux
   Eric S. Raymond
   Gilles Vollant

and with the following additions to the disclaimer:

   There is no warranty against interference with your enjoyment of the
   library or against infringement.  There is no warranty that our
   efforts or the library will fulfill any of your particular purposes
   or needs.  This library is provided with all faults, and the entire
   risk of satisfactory quality, performance, accuracy, and effort is with
   the user.

libpng versions 0.97, January 1998, through 1.0.6, March 20, 2000, are
Copyright (c) 1998, 1999 Glenn Randers-Pehrson, and are
distributed according to the same disclaimer and license as libpng-0.96,
with the following individuals added to the list of Contributing Authors:

   Tom Lane
   Glenn Randers-Pehrson
   Willem van Schaik

libpng versions 0.89, June 1996, through 0.96, May 1997, are
Copyright (c) 1996, 1997 Andreas Dilger
Distributed according to the same disclaimer and license as libpng-0.88,
with the following individuals added to the list of Contributing Authors:

   John Bowler
   Kevin Bracey
   Sam Bushell
   Magnus Holmgren
   Greg Roelofs
   Tom Tanner

libpng versions 0.5, May 1995, through 0.88, January 1996, are
Copyright (c) 1995, 1996 Guy Eric Schalnat, Group 42, Inc.

For the purposes of this copyright and license, "Contributing Authors"
is defined as the following set of individuals:

   Andreas Dilger
   Dave Martindale
   Guy Eric Schalnat
   Paul Schmidt
   Tim Wegner

The PNG Reference Library is supplied "AS IS".  The Contributing Authors
and Group 42, Inc. disclaim all warranties, expressed or implied,
including, without limitation, the warranties of merchantability and of
fitness for any purpose.  The Contributing Authors and Group 42, Inc.
assume no liability for direct, indirect, incidental, special, exemplary,
or consequential damages, which may result from the use of the PNG
Reference Library, even if advised of the possibility of such damage.

Permission is hereby granted to use, copy, modify, and distribute this
source code, or portions hereof, for any purpose, without fee, subject
to the following restrictions:

1. The origin of this source code must not be misrepresented.

2. Altered versions must be plainly marked as such and must not
   be misrepresented as being the original source.

3. This Copyright notice may not be removed or altered from any
   source or altered source distribution.

The Contributing Authors and Group 42, Inc. specifically permit, without
fee, and encourage the use of this source code as a component to
supporting the PNG file format in commercial products.  If you use this
source code in a product, acknowledgment is not required but would be
appreciated.


A "png_get_copyright" function is available, for convenient use in "about"
boxes and the like:

   printf("%s",png_get_copyright(NULL));

Also, the PNG logo (in PNG format, of course) is supplied in the
files "pngbar.png" and "pngbar.jpg (88x31) and "pngnow.png" (98x31).

Libpng is OSI Certified Open Source Software.  OSI Certified Open Source is a
certification mark of the Open Source Initiative.

Glenn Randers-Pehrson
glennrp at users.sourceforge.net
July 11, 2012

OpenCV
-----------
Copyright (c) <YEAR>, <OWNER>
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

Autodesk FBX
------------------
Autodesk
SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEEMENT
Autodesk® FBX® SDK 2011
Worldwide
 
READ CAREFULLY: Autodesk, Inc. ("Autodesk") licenses THIS software to you only upon the condition that you accept all of the terms contained in this Software LICENSE AGREEMENT ("AGREEMENT").
BY SELECTING the "I ACCEPT" button bELOW this Agreement OR BY INSTALLING, UPLOADING, ACCESSING, OR OTHERWISE COPYING OR USING ALL OR ANY PORTION OF THE SOFTWARE YOU AGREE TO BE LEGALLY BOUND BY THIS AGREEMENT. A contract is then formed between Autodesk and either you personally, if you acquire the Software for yourself, or the company or other legal entity for which you are acquiring the software.
IF YOU do not agree or do not wish to bind yourself or the entity you represent: (a) do not install, upload, access, or OTHERWISE COPY OR use the Software; (B) SELECT THE "I reject" BUTTON BELOW this Agreement (which will CANCEL THE LOADING OF THE SOFTWARE); AND (C) WITHIN thirty (30) DAYS FROM the date of ACQUISITION, RETURN the SOFTWARE AND ANY ACCOMPANYING DOCUMENTATION AND MATERIALS TO THE COMPANY FROM WHICH YOU ACQUIRED THE SOFTWARE for a refund.
INSTALLATING, UPLOADING, ACCESSING, OR OTHER COPYING OR USING THIS SOFTWARE OR ANY  ACCOMPANYING USER DOCUMENTATION OR MATERIALS EXCEPT AS PERMITTED BY THIS AGREEMENT IS UNAUTHORIZED AND CONSTITUTES A MATERIAL BREACH OF THIS AGREEMENT AND AN INFRINGEMENT OF THE COPYRIGHT AND OTHER INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS IN SUCH SOFTWARE, DOCUMENTATION AND MATERIALS. IF YOU INSTALL, UPLOAD, ACCESS, OR OTHERWISE COPY OR USE ALL OR ANY PORTION OF THIS SOFTWARE WITHOUT ENTERING INTO THIS AGREEMENT OR OTHERWISE OBTAINING WRITTEN PERMISSION OF AUTODESK, OR YOU FAIL TO COMPLY WITH THIS AGREEMENT, YOU ARE VIOLATING COPYRIGHT AND OTHER INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW. YOU MAY BE LIABLE TO AUTODESK AND ITS LICENSORS FOR DAMAGES, AND YOU MAY BE SUBJECT TO CRIMINAL PENALTIES.
SOFTWARE OBTAINED FROM THIRD PARTIES THAT HAVE NOT BEEN AUTHORIZED OR ALLOWED BY AUTODESK, DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY, TO SUPPLY SOFTWARE IS LIKELY TO HAVE BEEN MADE AVAILABLE IN VIOLATION OF AUTODESK’S RIGHTS. IN SUCH AN EVENT, AUTODESK IS NOT OBLIGATED TO ISSUE AN ACTIVATION CODE OR OTHERWISE PERMIT YOU TO INSTALL OR USE THE SOFTWARE.
1.         DEFINITIONS
1.1        "Access" means to use or benefit from using the functionality of the Software.
1.2        "Autodesk Materials" is the collective term for the Software, User Documentation, and Excluded Materials.
1.3        "Computer" means a single electronic device with one or more central processing units (CPUs) that accepts information in digital or similar form and manipulates the information for a specific result based on a sequence of instructions.
1.4        "Excluded Materials" means any programs, modules, components, or functionality, if any, that may be included on media or with materials delivered to You that are not the Permitted Number, or for which You have not paid the applicable fees.
1.5        "Install" means to place a copy of Software onto a hard disk or other storage medium through any means (including, but not limited to, use of an installation utility application accompanying the Software).
1.6        "Open Source" means any software code that: (a) contains, or is derived in any manner, (in whole or in part), from any software that is distributed as free software, open source software, shareware (e.g., Linux), or similar licensing or distribution models; and (b) is subject to any agreement with terms requiring that using, copying, modifying or redistributing the software requires that such software and/or the derivative works of such software be: (i) disclosed and/or distributed in source code form; (ii) be licensed for the purpose of making derivative works; and/or (iii) be redistributed free of charge; including, without limitation, software licensed or distributed under any of the following licenses or distribution models, or licenses or distribution models similar to, GNU’s General Public License (GPL) or Lesser/Library GPL (LGPL).
1.7        "Permitted Number" means one (1) unless otherwise provided by in such User Documentation.
1.8        "Software" means the computer program in which this Agreement is embedded or that is delivered pre-packaged with this Agreement and includes the Autodesk FBX SDK software, which includes the software development kit ("SDK"), the library in binary code format ("Library"), sample code(s) in source code format ("Sample Code(s)"). If programs are delivered to You as part of a bundled package, suite, or series, the term Software shall include all programs delivered to You as part of that bundled package, suite, or series and described in the User Documentation.
1.9        "Territory" means the country in which You acquire the Software, unless (i) You acquire the Software in a member country of the European Union or the European Free Trade Association, in which the case "Territory" means all of the member countries of the European Union and the European Free Trade Association; or (ii) otherwise specified in the User Documentation.
1.10      "Uninstall" means to destroy or remove.
1.11      "User Documentation" means the explanatory printed or electronic materials that Autodesk or its authorized distributor incorporates in or delivers in or on a package with the Software or sends to You on an invoice, via email, facsimile, or otherwise when or after You acquire or Install the Software, including, but not limited to, license specifications, activation code, license files, instructions on how to use the Software, and/or technical specifications.
1.12      "You" means you personally (i.e., the individual who reads and is prompted to accept this Agreement) if you acquire the Software for yourself, or the company, or other legal entity for which You acquire the Software, (but not the affiliates, subsidiaries or other related legal entities of such company or legal entity).
2.         LICENSE GRANT
2.1        Autodesk grants You a perpetual, non-transferable, nonexclusive, royalty-free, limited license to:
2.1.1     (a)        use the SDK for development, research, internal, educational, or commercial purposes:
(i) to create a software product with the capability to read and/or write and/or translate Your files, which software product links to the Library ("Developed Software"); and/or
(ii) to modify the Sample Code(s) solely to create an object code version(s) ("Modified Code(s)"); and/or
(b)        reproduce the Library to link to the Developed Software.
2.1.2     (a)        incorporate the executable version of the Developed Software into; and/or
(b)        incorporate the Modified Code(s) into; and/or
(c)        link the Library, in binary code form to;
software products developed by You ("Your Products") for Your internal business purposes;
2.1.3     reproduce, distribute and sublicense free of charge or for a fee Your Product(s) provided that You must sublicense the Software, the Developed Software, the Library, the Sample Code and the Modified Code "as is", without warranty of any kind.
 
2.2        Autodesk’s license grant (and, with that grant, Your right to Install and use the Software and User Documentation) is conditioned on Your continuous compliance with all license limitations, restrictions and other terms in this Agreement. If You violate any of these limitations, restrictions or other terms, the license grant will automatically and immediately terminate. The license descriptions in this Section 2 (License Grant) define the scope of rights that Autodesk grants to You. Any usage of the Software or User Documentation outside the scope of the applicable license grant or otherwise not in accordance with this Agreement constitutes an infringement of Autodesk’s intellectual property rights as well as a material breach of this Agreement. No license is granted under the terms of this Agreement to Excluded Materials (if any). No license is granted under the terms of this Agreement if You did not lawfully acquire the Software from Autodesk or from a third party who has been permitted or authorized by Autodesk either directly or indirectly to supply the Software.
2.3        You acquire no right, title, or interest in or to the Software or any object code compiled from modifications to the Sample Code(s) or to the Modified Codes.
2.3        Autodesk is under no obligation to provide maintenance, support, or upgrades for the Software.
2.4        You shall place the following statement in the copyright area of (i) the on-line documentation regarding the Developed Software, (ii) the End-User License and/or terms of use for the Developed Software, (iii) the ‘About Box’ or similar notice page of the Developed Software and (iv) any other document related to Developed Software that contains copyright information:
"This software contains Autodesk® FBX® code developed by Autodesk, Inc. Copyright 2010 Autodesk, Inc. All rights, reserved. Such code is provided "as is" and Autodesk, Inc. disclaims any and all warranties, whether express or implied, including without limitation the implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose or non-infringement of third party rights. In no event shall Autodesk, Inc. be liable for any direct, indirect, incidental, special, exemplary, or consequential damages (including, but not limited to, procurement of substitute goods or services; loss of use, data, or profits; or business interruption) however caused and on any theory of liability, whether in contract, strict liability, or tort (including negligence or otherwise) arising in any way out of such code."
3.         Permitted and prohibited actions
3.1        Permitted Actions.
3.1.1     Backup Copy.
(a)        Backup for All Versions. With respect to any version of the Software, You may make one (1) backup copy of the Software solely for backup purposes in the event that Your primary copy of the Software becomes inoperable. You may Install and Access such backup copy of the Software only in the event that the primary copy of the Software becomes inoperable and You are otherwise unable to Access the Software.
(b)        No Backup for User Documentation. If the User Documentation is in printed form, it may not be copied, and if the User Documentation is in electronic form, it may not be duplicated electronically.
3.2        Prohibited Actions. Except as expressly authorized by this Agreement, Autodesk does not permit any of the following actions and You acknowledge that such actions shall be prohibited:
3.2.1     Use. You may not (and may not permit any third party to) Install, Access, or otherwise copy or use the Autodesk Materials.
3.2.2     Reverse Engineering. You may not (and may not permit any third party to) reverse engineer, decompile, or disassemble the Software or Excluded Materials (if applicable).
3.2.3     Transfers. You may not distribute, rent, loan, lease, sell, sublicense, or otherwise transfer all or any portion of the Autodesk Materials, or any rights granted in this Agreement, to any other person or legal entity without the prior written consent of Autodesk.
3.2.4     Hosting or Third Party Use. You may not Install or Access, or allow the Installation or Access of, the Autodesk Materials over the Internet, including, without limitation, use in connection with a Web hosting, commercial time-sharing, service bureau, or similar service, or make the Autodesk Materials available to third parties via the Internet on Your computer system or otherwise. You shall not reproduce, distribute and sublicense free of charge or for a fee Your Product(s) for use in a file translation bureau, time sharing or other similar network or subscription file translating services, including Internet-based file translating services.
3.2.5     Notices. You make not make use of Autodesk’s trademarks, trade names, or trade dress.
3.2.6     Modifications. You may not modify, translate, adapt, arrange, or create derivative works based on the Autodesk Materials for any purpose.
3.2.7     Circumvention.
(a)        You may not utilize any equipment, device, software, or other means designed to circumvent or remove any form of copy protection used by Autodesk in connection with the Software, or use the Software together with any authorization code, serial number, or other copy-protection device not supplied by Autodesk directly or through an authorized distributor.
(b)        You may not utilize any equipment, device, software, or other means designed to circumvent or remove any usage restrictions, or to enable functionality disabled by Autodesk in connection with the Excluded Materials. You may not bypass or delete any functionality or technical limitations of the Autodesk Materials that prevent or inhibit the unauthorized copying or use of the Excluded Materials.
3.2.8     Export. You may not export the Autodesk Materials in violation of this Agreement, or U.S., or other applicable export control laws.
3.2.9     Use Outside of Territory. You may not Access the Software or User Documentation outside of the Territory.
3.2.10   Open Source. If Your Products include any Open Source You agree to comply with all applicable Open Source licensing terms. You also agree not to use any Open Source in the development of the Developed Software and/or the Modified Code(s) in such a way that would cause the non-Open Source portions of the Software, the SDK, the Library, the Sample Code(s), the Developed Software, and/or the Modified Code(s) to be subject to any Open Source licensing terms or obligations.
3.2.11   Exceptions from Prohibitions. The prohibitions contained in this Section 3.2 (Prohibited Actions) shall apply to the extent that applicable law (including laws implementing EC Directive 91/250 on the legal protection of computer programs) allows such prohibition to be enforced. You will bear the burden of proof in demonstrating that applicable law does not allow enforcement of any such prohibition.
4.         COPYRIGHTS AND TRADEMARKS
You shall reproduce and apply any copyright or other proprietary rights notices included on or embedded in the Software, or any part thereof, to any copies of the Software, or any part thereof, or to the Developed Software, in any form. You shall have no right to use any Autodesk trademarks, trade names or trade dress absent a separate written agreement between Autodesk and You. You hereby understand and agree that Autodesk is not granting any rights to Autodesk patents, copyrights, trademarks or trade secret information to You by this Agreement.
5.         TERM AND TERMINATION
The grant of a perpetual license notwithstanding, Autodesk may immediately terminate this Agreement and revoke the licenses granted to You upon written notice to You if You fail to comply with any of the limitations, restrictions or other terms of this Agreement. Upon revocation of the license grants or termination of this Agreement, You must (i) cease all use, reproduction, distribution and sublicense of the Software and Uninstall all copies of the Software; and (ii) destroy all Software or, upon request by Autodesk, return all Software to Autodesk or the company from which it was acquired. Autodesk reserves the right to require that You show satisfactory proof that all copies of the Software have been Uninstalled and all Software and all related documentation and materials, and copies thereof, have been destroyed or returned.
6.         All Rights REserved
Autodesk and its licensors retain title to and ownership of the Autodesk Materials and all copies thereof, and all other rights and interest, including, without limitation, patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, and other intellectual property rights, in and to the Autodesk Materials and any copies thereof. You have only the limited rights with respect to the Autodesk Materials expressly set forth in this Agreement and You have no other rights, implied or otherwise. The structure, organization, and code of the Autodesk Materials are valuable trade secrets of Autodesk and its licensors and You shall keep such trade secrets confidential. The Software and User Documentation are licensed, not sold.
7.         DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY
7.1        The Software is provided "AS IS" and without any warranty of any kind.
7.2        Autodesk and its licensors MAKE AND YOU RECEIVE NO WARRANTIES EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WITH RESPECT TO THE SOFTWARE. IN ADDITION, AUTODESK AND ITS LICENSORS SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIM ANY WARRANTY INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NONINFRINGEMENT, OR ARISING FROM A COURSE OF DEALING, USAGE, OR TRADE PRACTICE. Any statements or representations about the Software and its functionality in the PRINTED MATERIALS AND/OR ONLINE OR ELECTRONIC Documentation or ANY COMMUNICATION WITH LICENSEE constituteS technical information and not an express warranty or guarantee.WITHOUT LIMITING THE FOREGOING, Autodesk makes no warranties that: (i) future versions of the SDK, Library and/or Sample Code(s), if any, will contain features similar to or the same as the SDK, Library and/or Sample Codes, respectively or will be compatible with the SDK, Library and/or Sample Codes, respectively; (ii) the Software or the SDK, Library and/or Sample Code(s) will meet YOUR requirements; or (iii) operation of the SDK, Library or Sample Code(s) will be uninterrupted or error-free.
8.         Warnings
8.1        Functionality Limitations. THE SOFTWARE IS A TOOL INTENDED TO BE USED BY TRAINED PROFESSIONALS ONLY. THE SOFTWARE IS NOT A SUBSTITUTE FOR YOUR PROFESSIONAL JUDGMENT OR INDEPENDENT TESTING. THE SOFTWARE IS INTENDED TO ASSIST WITH DESIGN AND/OR ANALYSIS AND IS NOT A SUBSTITUTE FOR INDEPENDENT DESIGN, ANALYSIS, ESTIMATION, OR TESTING OF PRODUCT STRESS, SAFETY, AND UTILITY. DUE TO THE LARGE VARIETY OF POTENTIAL APPLICATIONS FOR THE SOFTWARE, THE SOFTWARE HAS NOT BEEN TESTED IN ALL SITUATIONS UNDER WHICH IT MAY BE USED. AUTODESK SHALL NOT BE LIABLE IN ANY MANNER WHATSOEVER FOR THE RESULTS OBTAINED THROUGH THE USE OF THE SOFTWARE. PERSONS USING THE SOFTWARE ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE SUPERVISION, MANAGEMENT, AND CONTROL OF THE SOFTWARE. THIS RESPONSIBILITY INCLUDES, BUT IS NOT LIMITED TO, THE DETERMINATION OF APPROPRIATE USES FOR THE SOFTWARE AND THE SELECTION OF THE SOFTWARE AND OTHER PROGRAMS TO ACHIEVE INTENDED RESULTS. PERSONS USING THE SOFTWARE ARE ALSO RESPONSIBLE FOR ESTABLISHING THE ADEQUACY OF INDEPENDENT PROCEDURES FOR TESTING THE RELIABILITY, ACCURACY AND COMPLETENESS OF ANY PROGRAM OUTPUT, INCLUDING ALL ITEMS DESIGNED BY USING THE SOFTWARE.
8.2        Activation Code Required.
A.         Installation, Access, and continued use of the Software may require an activation code. Registration is required before an activation code is issued by autodesk. you agree that autodesk may use data and information provided by you, a SOFTWARE reseller, or any other third party acting on your behalf in connection with your purchase of the software license to register the software. you agree to provide autodesk, an aNY SOFTWAREreseller, or any other third party acting on your behalf with accurate and current registration information, REQUIRED BY autodesk, and you further agree to maintain and update your registration information through customer data registration processes that may be provided by autodesk. you consent to Autodesk’S using THE PERSONAL INFORMATION PROVIDED TO AUTODESK AT REGISTRATION, OR UPDATED THEREAFTER, to ISSUE activation codes, TO MANAGE AUTODESK’S RELATIONSHIP WITH YOU (iNCLUDING AUTOMATING THE ISSUANCE OF ACTIVATION CODES FOR FUTURE PURCHASES), TO VALIDATE ENTITLEMENT AND USAGE OF SOFTWARE AND TO OTHERWISE USE AND DISCLOSURE SUCH PERSONAL INFORMATION in conformance with its applicable privacy policy (AS UPDATED FROM TIME TO TIME), which is available on Autodesk’s website or on request.
B.         The activation security mechanisms may disable the Software if You try to transfer it to another Computer, if You tamper with the date-setting mechanisms on Your Computer, if you use the Software past an applicable evaluation period or limited term, or if You undertake certain other actions that may offset the security mode. More information is contained in the applicable User Documentation or available from Autodesk on request.
9.         LIMITATION OF LIABILITY
IN NO EVENT SHALL AUTODESK OR ITS LICENSORS HAVE ANY LIABILITY FOR ANY INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES; LOSS OF PROFITS, REVENUE, OR DATA; BUSINESS INTERRUPTION, OR COST OF COVER. IN ADDITION, IN NO EVENT SHALL THE LIABILITY OF AUTODESK OR ITS LICENSORS FOR ANY DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE, USER DOCUMENTATION, OR THIS AGREEMENT EXCEED THE AMOUNT PAID OR PAYABLE BY YOU FOR THE SOFTWARE DIRECTLY RESPONSIBLE FOR SUCH DAMAGES. THE LIMITATIONS OF LIABILITY IN THIS SECTION 9 SHALL APPLY TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW TO ANY DAMAGES, HOWEVER CAUSED AND REGARDLESS OF THE THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER DERIVED FROM CONTRACT, TORT (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, NEGLIGENCE) OR OTHERWISE, EVEN IF AUTODESK HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES AND REGARDLESS OF WHETHER THE LIMITED REMEDIES AVAILABLE HEREUNDER FAIL OF THEIR ESSENTIAL PURPOSE.
autodesk shall have no responsibility or liability whatsoever arising from loss or theft of the software or the media on which the software is furnished to you. Autodesk shall not be obligated to rePlace any lost or stolen software or software media. You are solely responsible for safeguarding the software and the media on which the software is furnished AND FOR BACKING UP ANY DATA.
10.        PROPRIETARY INFORMATION
The Software is the proprietary information of Autodesk ("Confidential Information"). Except as permitted by this Agreement, You shall not disclose Confidential Information and shall use it only for purposes specifically contemplated by this Agreement. This Agreement will not affect any non-disclosure agreement between the parties.
11.        U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS
All Autodesk Materials provided to the U.S. Government are provided with the same commercial license rights and restrictions described elsewhere herein.
12.        GENERAL
12.1.     No Assignment; Insolvency. You may not assign this Agreement or any rights hereunder (whether by purchase of stock or assets, merger, change of control, operation of law, or otherwise), and any purported assignment by You shall be void. Autodesk may, in its sole and absolute discretion, terminate the Agreement and the licenses granted hereunder if You become insolvent or make an arrangement with Your creditors to Autodesk’s detriment. The Agreement and the licenses granted hereunder shall automatically terminate without further notice or action by Autodesk if You go into liquidation. In the context of any bankruptcy proceeding, You acknowledge and agree that this Agreement is and shall be treated as an executory contract of the type described by Section 365(c)(1) of Title 11 of the United States Code and may not be assigned without Autodesk's prior written consent, which may be withheld in Autodesk's sole and absolute discretion.
12.2.     Choice of Law. This Agreement and any disputes arising out of or in connection with this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California, U.S.A., without reference to conflict-of-laws principles and excluding the UN Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods.
12.3      Entire Agreement. This Agreement and the applicable User Documentation constitute the entire agreement between us and supersede any other previous or contemporaneous communications, agreements, representations, warranties or advertising with respect to the Software and User Documentation. Any modifications to this Agreement shall be invalid, unless made in writing and signed by a duly authorized representative of Autodesk.
12.4      Severability. If and to the extent any provision of this Agreement is held illegal, invalid, or unenforceable in whole or in part under applicable law, such provision or such portion thereof shall be ineffective as to the jurisdiction in which it is illegal, invalid, or unenforceable to the extent of its illegality, invalidity, or unenforceability and shall be deemed modified to the extent necessary to conform to applicable law so as to give the maximum effect to the intent of the parties. The illegality, invalidity, or unenforceability of such provision in that jurisdiction shall not in any way affect the legality, validity, or enforceability of such provision in any other jurisdiction or affect the legality, validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement.
12.5      No Waiver. No term or provision hereof will be considered waived, and no breach excused, unless such waiver is in writing signed on behalf of the party against whom the waiver is asserted. No waiver (whether express or implied) will constitute a consent to, waiver of, or excuse of any other, different, or subsequent breach.
12.6      Audits. To ensure compliance with this Agreement, You agree that upon reasonable notice, Autodesk or Autodesk’s authorized representative shall have the right to inspect and audit Your Installation, Access, and use of the Autodesk Materials. Any such inspection or audit shall be conducted during regular business hours at Your facilities or electronically, either by Autodesk or by representatives authorized by Autodesk for this purpose. If such inspections or audits disclose that You have Installed, Accessed, or permitted Access to the Autodesk Materials in a manner that is not permitted under this Agreement, then (i) You are liable to pay for any unpaid license fees as well as the reasonable costs of the audit; and (ii) without limitation of Section 2.1 (License Grant), and unless Autodesk otherwise elects in writing, the license grant with respect to the Software will terminate immediately. Any information obtained by Autodesk or Autodesk’s authorized representative during the course of such inspection and audit will be used and disclosed by Autodesk solely for purposes of such inspection and audit and for enforcement of Autodesk’s rights under this Agreement and applicable law, unless other uses or disclosures are required under applicable law. Nothing in this Section shall be deemed to limit any legal or equitable remedies available to Autodesk for violation of this Agreement or applicable law.
12.7      Language. The English language version of this Agreement is legally binding in case of any inconsistencies between the English version and any translations.
12.8      Canadian License. If You obtained the license for the Software in Canada, You agree to the following: The parties hereto confirm that it is their wish that this Agreement, as well as other documents relating hereto, including notices, have been and shall be written in the English language only. Les parties ci-dessus confirment leur désir que cet accord ainsi que tous les documents, y compris tous avis qui s'y rattachent, soient rédigés en langue anglaise.
12.9      Construction. Ambiguities in this Agreement will not be construed against the drafter.